Prometheus and Grafana are complementary tools that help in - monitoring and observability - in modern IT environments. 

Prometheus:
	Open-source monitoring and alerting tools 
	Collect, store, and query time-series data - typically metrics from application, infrastructure and systems.
	
	Key Features:
		Metrics Collection:
			They are used to collect metrics from various sources using a http based pull model.
		
		Time Series Database:
			THe data is stored in an optimal manner in a time series based data storage system 
		
		Powerful Query Language:
			We are using a powerful query language called PromQL to query the metrics and data from the time series based database 
		
		Alerting users:
			We can integrate with Alertmanager to alert end users depending on any threshold that is crossed.
		
	Use Case:
		It is useful to collect metrics or timestamped data from different sources using a http based pull model.
		It is used to store in an optimal manner for querying, managing data 
		It is also used to alert the users depending on the usage.
		
Grafana:
	Grafana - open-source data visualization and analysis platforme 
	It can visualize time-series based data from various sources - including Prometheus
	
	Key Features:
		Dashboarding:
			It helps in building interactive visualization or dashboards based on the data (time-based or not)
			
		Multiple Sources:
			It allows multiple databases/ sources like InfluxDB, ElasticSearch, Prometheus
		
		Alerting:
			It can alert end users whenever the thresholds are crossed.
		
		Flexible Querying:
			It allows a flexibe querying methodology depending on the data source such as PromQL for Prometheus and DSL for ElasticSearch
	
	Use Cases:
		Visualizing Metrics for infrastructure monitoring, tracking application performance, displaying real-time dashboards, and correlating data from multiple sources.

How they work together:
	Data flow;
		The data is collected at Prometheus which serves as the engined and grafana is used to use this data engine to generate visualizations for the data to be monitored.
	
	Unified Monitoring:
		The data is monitored at both Prometheus and grafana and alerted when crossing the thresholds but grafana provides additional visualization to support the easier monitoring of the data 

What is monitoring and observability?
	Monitoring:
		Monitoring is collecting logs, metircs and information on the logs, performance of the system 
		It is also used to alert the users based on the performance that happens in the logs 
		It is focused on detecting and alerting issues when they occur 
		It helps in creating prebuilt thresholds on the metrics that helps in identifying and handling expected issues.
	
	Observability:
		Observability is the operation of using the logs that were monitored to gain insights about the system and system performance
		It helps in gaining understaind of the internal performance and helps in handling unexpected issues 
		
Prometheus:
	Setting up Prometheus: https://claude.ai/chat/a4b45ae5-0a9d-4987-b0f1-396d247a0105
	Prometheus Notes: https://claude.ai/chat/0b06b2ac-5112-45cf-b445-2bb966ad48b7
	
Grafana:
	Setting up Grafana: 
	Grafana Notes: https://claude.ai/chat/aca1f268-d254-43d7-a3ef-a83d4acabf1c
	Possible Questions:
		data source proxy, 